# PATENT CLAIMS ANALYTICS

### Challenges
Patent claims are formally worded statements within a patent application or patent, which clearly explain the invention, and define the scope of the invention. In order to enforce the full scope of a patent, it is imperative for inventors, firms, and companies to make sure that the patent’s scope is not covered by prior publications and competitors’ patents (referred to as “prior art”) available in the public domain. For this reason, most companies with a patent portfolio spend a substantial amount of resources in searching for potentially troubling prior art. Traditionally, searching for these prior art required numerous hours spend on searching through public and private databases.Therefore, this project is a first step to optimize this process and offers an analytic tool to better categorize and analyze the relationship between a granted patent with other patents by clustering them based on claim term frequency.

### Approach
The US granted patent claims full text files from USPTO will be used as raw data, and matrices will be used to store data such as title of patents, filling dates, and US class categorization. Then, clustering of patent claims will be executed by implementing scoring and scaling system of the counts of key claim terms. To illustrate the relationships between different patent claims, the distance matrix graph between patent claims will be constructed by taking each patent as a vertex and two patents where one patent cited one another sharing an edge. In addition, the prominent trends in patents will be determined by analyzing the counts of related patent claims per time.
